.TH ipsvd 7
.SH NAME
ipsvd \- Internet protocol service daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I ipsvd
[\-hp] [\-l
.IR name ]
[\-u
.IR user ]
[\-i
.IR dir |\-x
.IR cdb ]
[\-t
.IR sec ]
.I host
.I port
.I prog
.SH DESCRIPTION
An implementation of an internet protocol service daemon provides
the command line interface as shown in SYNOPSIS above (additional options are
possible), and supports pre-defined instructions for handling connections
through files in a instructions directory, and through a constant database,
as described in
.BR ipsvd-instruct (5).
.P
Currently there are two implementations of an internet protocol service
daemon:
a TCP/IP service daemon,
.BR tcpsvd (8),
and an UDP/IP service daemon,
.BR udpsvd (8).
More internet protocol service daemons may appear in the future.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-i \fIdir
read instructions for handling new connections from the instructions
directory
.IR dir .
See
.BR ipsvd-instruct (5)
for details.
.TP
.B \-x \fIcdb
read instructions for handling new connections from the constant database
.IR cdb .
The constant database normally is created from an instructions directory by
running
.BR ipsvd-cdb (8).
.TP
.B \-t \fIsec
timeout.
This option only takes effect if the \-i option is given.
While checking the instructions directory, check the time of last access of
the file that matches the clients address or hostname if any, discard and
remove the file if it wasn't accessed within the last
.I sec
seconds;
.B ipsvd
does not discard or remove a file if the user's write permission is not set,
for those files the timeout is disabled.
Default is 0, which means that the timeout is disabled.
.TP
.B \-l \fIname
local hostname.
Do not look up the local hostname in DNS, but use
.I name
as hostname.
.TP
.B \-u \fI[:]user[:group]
drop permissions.
Set uid and gid to the
.IR user 's
uid and gid, as found in
.IR /etc/passwd ,
before running
.IR prog .
If
.I user
is followed by a colon and a
.IR group ,
set the gid to
.IR group 's
gid, as found in
.IR /etc/group ,
instead of
.IR user 's
gid.
If
.I group
consists of a colon-separated list of group names,
set the group ids of all listed groups.
If
.I user
is prefixed with a colon, the
.I user
and all
.I group
arguments are interpreted as uid and gids respectively, and not looked up in
the password or group file.
All supplementary groups are removed.
.TP
.B \-h
Look up the client's hostname in DNS.
.TP
.B \-p
paranoid.
After looking up the client's hostname in DNS, look up the IP addresses in
DNS for that hostname, and forget about the hostname if none of the addresses
match the client's IP address.
You should set this option if you use hostname based instructions.
The \-p option implies the \-h option.
.SH SIGNALS
If an
.B ipsvd
receives a TERM signal, it exists with 0.
.SH SEE ALSO
tcpsvd(8),
sslsvd(8),
udpsvd(8),
ipsvd-instruct(5),
ipsvd-cdb(8)
.P
http://smarden.org/ipsvd/
.SH AUTHOR
Gerrit Pape <pape@smarden.org>
